OSDOCS-4111: Doc pod affinity (#54070)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/olm-overriding-operator-pod-affinity.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * operators/admin/olm-adding-operators-to-cluster.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "nodes-scheduler-pod-affinity"]
:pod:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "nodes-scheduler-node-affinity"]
:node:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "olm-adding-operators-to-a-cluster"]
:olm:
endif::[]

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="olm-overriding-operator-pod-affinity_{context}"]

ifdef::olm[]
= Controlling where an Operator is installed
endif::olm[]

ifdef::pod[]
= Using pod anti-affinity to control where an Operator is installed
endif::pod[]

ifdef::node[]
= Using node affinity to control where an Operator is installed
endif::node[]

By default, when you install an Operator, {product-title} installs the Operator pod to one of your worker nodes randomly. However, there might be situations where you want that pod scheduled on a specific node or set of nodes. 

For example, some Operators require being scheduled on a node with a particular architecture, such as linux/amd64, linux/arm64, or Windows.  

> Or, you might want Operators that work closely together to be scheduled on nodes on the same rack. Alternatively, you might want your Operators dispersed to avoid downtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or, you might want Operators that work closely together to be scheduled on nodes on the same host or hosts located on the same rack. Alternatively, you might want your Operators dispersed to avoid downtime due to network issues.
```

> Or, you might want Operators that work closely together to be scheduled on nodes on host or hosts located on the same rack. Alternatively, you might want your Operators dispersed to avoid downtime due to network issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or, you might want Operators that work closely together to be scheduled on the same host, or on hosts located on the same rack. Alternatively, you might want your Operators dispersed throughout the infrastructure to avoid downtime due to network or hardware issues.
```

  resourceVersion: '77887'
  uid: 9b38d0eb-9c57-4cb6-9905-1c65c21f08ef
spec:
  channel: stable
  config:
    affinity:
      nodeAffinity: <1>
        requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
          nodeSelectorTerms:
          - matchExpressions:
            - key: kubernetes.io/arch
              operator: In
              values:
              - arm64
            - key: kubernetes.io/os
              operator: In
              values:
                - linux
----
<1> A node affinity that requires the Operator's pod to be scheduled on a node with the `kubernetes.io/arch=arm64` and `kubernetes.io/os=linux` labels.

.Pod anti-affinity example that prevents the Operator pod from one or more specific nodes
[source,terminal]
----
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: '2022-12-21T14:54:47Z'
  generation: 6
  labels:
    operators.coreos.com/openshift-custom-metrics-autoscaler-operator.openshift-keda: ''
  name: openshift-custom-metrics-autoscaler-operator
  namespace: openshift-keda
  resourceVersion: '77887'
  uid: 9b38d0eb-9c57-4cb6-9905-1c65c21f08ef
spec:
  channel: stable
  config:
    affinity:

>       podAntiAffinity: <1>

Reviewer 2: Should also address it in https://54070--docspreview.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/nodes/scheduling/nodes-scheduler-node-affinity.html#olm-overriding-operator-pod-affinity_nodes-scheduler-node-affinity and https://54070--docspreview.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/operators/admin/olm-adding-operators-to-cluster.html#olm-pod-placement_olm-adding-operators-to-a-cluster

>       podAntiAffinity: <1>

Author: @jianzhangbjz @perdasilva It seems the `affinity` doesn't need to be under `config`, it that correct? Our docs are inconsistent here. [Upstream docs show](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#an-example-of-a-pod-that-uses-pod-affinity): 

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: with-pod-affinity
spec:
  affinity:
    podAntiAffinity:
      preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
      - weight: 100
        podAffinityTerm:
          labelSelector:
            matchExpressions:
            - key: security
              operator: In
              values:
              - S2
          topologyKey: topology.kubernetes.io/zone

```

>       podAntiAffinity: <1>

Reviewer 3: This CRD is for a pod. Therefore, it doesn't have spec.config.

What OLM does is allow you to specify these overrides in a Subscription CRD. The subscription CRD expects the overrides in `spec.config`

endif::olm[]

ifdef::pod[]
= Using pod anti-affinity to control where an Operator is installed
endif::pod[]

ifdef::node[]
= Using node affinity to control where an Operator is installed
endif::node[]

By default, when you install an Operator, {product-title} installs the Operator pod to one of your worker nodes randomly. However, there might be situations where you want that pod scheduled on a specific node or set of nodes.

For example, some Operators require being scheduled on a node with a particular architecture, such as linux/amd64, linux/arm64, or Windows.

Or, you might want Operators that work closely together to be scheduled on the same host, or on hosts located on the same rack. Alternatively, you might want your Operators dispersed throughout the infrastructure to avoid downtime due to network or hardware issues.

You can control where an Operator pod is installed by adding node affinity or pod anti-affinity constraints to the Operator's `Subscription` object. Node affinity is a set of rules used by the scheduler to determine where a pod can be placed. Pod anti-affinity allows you to restrict which nodes your pod can be scheduled on.

[NOTE]
====

> Pod affinity is not supported for use with the `Subscription` object.

Reviewer 3: @perdasilva Is this true?
It looks like the functionality is there.
https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-lifecycle-manager/pull/2826/files#diff-113de6a429d5e0007b5db0942aa31ffec772fe4cf041598ca99da510e02845d3R278

              operator: In
              values:
              - arm64
            - key: kubernetes.io/os
              operator: In
              values:
                - linux
----
<1> A node affinity that requires the Operator's pod to be scheduled on a node with the `kubernetes.io/arch=arm64` and `kubernetes.io/os=linux` labels.

.Pod anti-affinity example that prevents the Operator pod from one or more specific nodes
[source,terminal]
----
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: '2022-12-21T14:54:47Z'
  generation: 6
  labels:
    operators.coreos.com/openshift-custom-metrics-autoscaler-operator.openshift-keda: ''
  name: openshift-custom-metrics-autoscaler-operator
  namespace: openshift-keda
  resourceVersion: '77887'
  uid: 9b38d0eb-9c57-4cb6-9905-1c65c21f08ef
spec:
  channel: stable
  config:
    affinity:
      podAntiAffinity: <1>
        requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
        - labelSelector:
          matchExpressions:
            - key: kubernetes.io/arch
              operator: In
              values:
              - amd64
          topologyKey: kubernetes.io/hostname
 ...
----

> <1> A pod anti-affinity that prevents the Operator's pod from being scheduled on a node with the `kubernetes.io/arch=amd4` label.

Reviewer 3: This is not correct.

Pod anti-affinity doesn't check node labels, it checks pod labels for pods running on that node.
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#inter-pod-affinity-and-anti-affinity

If you want to avoid a node based on architecture node labels, you'd use node anti affinity.

Reviewer 3: Technically, there is no separate node anti affinity. You'd just use node affinity with negative selection rules. See https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#node-affinity for a full explanation.

Author: @jaypoulz What is a good use case for using pod antiaffinity when installing an Operator?

Reviewer 3: Say you had two workloads that are intensive on a particular resource. Let's just say CPU, as an example. One thing you might way to do is to ensure they aren't scheduled on the same node. Pod anti affinity allows you to say - check the scheduled pods on this node, and make sure there are none that match this label (or set of labels)

Essentially, you only care that something is not scheduled in the same place of something that could conflict with it.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * nodes/scheduling/nodes-scheduler-node-affinity.adoc
// * nodes/scheduling/nodes-scheduler-pod-affinity.adoc
// * operators/admin/olm-adding-operators-to-cluster.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "nodes-scheduler-pod-affinity"]
:pod:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "nodes-scheduler-node-affinity"]
:node:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "olm-adding-operators-to-a-cluster"]
:olm:
endif::[]

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="olm-overriding-operator-pod-affinity_{context}"]

ifdef::olm[]
= Controlling where an Operator is installed
endif::olm[]

ifdef::pod[]
= Using pod anti-affinity to control where an Operator is installed
endif::pod[]

ifdef::node[]
= Using node affinity to control where an Operator is installed
endif::node[]

> By default, when you install an Operator, {product-title} installs the Operator pod to one of your worker nodes randomly. However, there might be situations where you want that pod scheduled on a specific node or set of nodes.
> 
> For example, some Operators require being scheduled on a node with a particular architecture, such as linux/amd64, linux/arm64, or Windows.
> 
> Or you might want Operators that work closely together to be scheduled on the same host, or on hosts located on the same rack. Alternatively, you might want your Operators dispersed throughout the infrastructure to avoid downtime due to network or hardware issues.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
By default, when you install an Operator, {product-title} installs the Operator pod to one of your worker nodes randomly. However, there might be situations where you want that pod scheduled on a specific node or set of nodes.

The following examples describe situations where you might want to schedule an Operator pod to a specific node or set of nodes:

* If an Operator requires a particular architecture, such as linux/amd64, linux/arm64, or Windows
* If you want Operators that work together scheduled on the same host or on hosts located on the same rack
* If you want Operators dispersed throughout the infrastructure to avoid downtime due to network or hardware issues
```
I keep thinking this could benefit from being a list. WDYT?

Reviewer 4: Also, our guidance is a little unclear as to how to refer to architectures. The SSG only has guidance for [AMD64](https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#amd-64). Based on a conversation with @kelbrown20, I think what you have here is consistent with the OCP docs that refer to architectures.

Reviewer 4: Maybe breaking up the operating system and architecture aspects in the list?

* If an Operator requires a particular architecture, such as `amd64` or `arm64`
* If an Operator requires a particular arhitecture, such as Linux or Windows

> You can control where an Operator pod is installed by adding node affinity or pod anti-affinity constraints to the Operator's `Subscription` object. Node affinity is a set of rules used by the scheduler to determine where a pod can be placed. Pod anti-affinity allows you to restrict which nodes your pod can be scheduled on.

Reviewer 4: Optional suggestion to avoid ending the sentence with a preposition:
```suggestion
You can control where an Operator pod is installed by adding node affinity or pod anti-affinity constraints to the Operator's `Subscription` object. Node affinity is a set of rules used by the scheduler to determine where a pod can be placed. Pod anti-affinity allows you to prevent a pod from being scheduled on a node.
```

Reviewer 3: Pod affinity is an allowed 3rd option. It enables you to ensure that related workloads are scheduled to the same node.

ifdef::olm[]

> The following examples show how to use node affinity or pod anti-affinity to install an instance of the Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator to a specific node in the cluster.
> endif::olm[]
> ifdef::node[]
> The following examples show how to use node affinity to install an instance of the Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator to a specific node in the cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following examples show how to use node affinity or pod anti-affinity to install an instance of the Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator to a specific node in the cluster:
endif::olm[]
ifdef::node[]
The following examples show how to use node affinity to install an instance of the Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator to a specific node in the cluster:
```
I think these lead-in sentences needs a colon at the end of the lead-in sentence [based on the ISG](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=format-lists#lead-in-wording).

.Node affinity example that places the Operator pod on a node with a specific architecture
[source,terminal]
----
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: '2022-12-21T14:54:47Z'
  generation: 6
  labels:
    operators.coreos.com/openshift-custom-metrics-autoscaler-operator.openshift-keda: ''
  name: openshift-custom-metrics-autoscaler-operator
  namespace: openshift-keda
  resourceVersion: '77887'
  uid: 9b38d0eb-9c57-4cb6-9905-1c65c21f08ef
spec:
  name: my-package
  source: my-operators
  sourceNamespace: operator-registries
  config:
    affinity:
      nodeAffinity: <1>
        requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
          nodeSelectorTerms:
          - matchExpressions:
            - key: kubernetes.io/arch
              operator: In
              values:
              - arm64
            - key: kubernetes.io/os
              operator: In
              values:
                - linux
----
<1> A node affinity that requires the Operator's pod to be scheduled on a node with the `kubernetes.io/arch=arm64` and `kubernetes.io/os=linux` labels.
endif::pod[]

ifdef::pod[]

> The following example shows how to use pod anti-affinity to prevent the installation the Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator from any node that has pods with a specific label.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to use pod anti-affinity to prevent the installation the Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator from any node that has pods with a specific label:
```

endif::pod[]

ifndef::node[]
.Pod anti-affinity example that prevents the Operator pod from one or more specific nodes
[source,terminal]
----
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: '2022-12-21T14:54:47Z'
  generation: 6
  labels:
    operators.coreos.com/openshift-custom-metrics-autoscaler-operator.openshift-keda: ''
  name: openshift-custom-metrics-autoscaler-operator
  namespace: openshift-keda
  resourceVersion: '77887'
  uid: 9b38d0eb-9c57-4cb6-9905-1c65c21f08ef
spec:
  name: my-package
  source: my-operators
  sourceNamespace: operator-registries
  config:
    affinity:
      podAntiAffinity: <1>
        requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
        - labelSelector:
            matchExpressions:
            - key: cpu
              operator: In
              values:
              - high
          topologyKey: kubernetes.io/hostname
 ...
----
<1> A pod anti-affinity that prevents the Operator's pod from being scheduled on a node that has pods with the `cpu=high` label.
endif::node[]

.Procedure

> To control the placement of an Operator pod:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To control the placement of an Operator pod, complete the following steps:
```
See ISG on [Introducing the procedure](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=format-procedures#introducing-the-procedure)

                  operator: In
 ...
----
<1> Add a `nodeAffinity` or `podAntiAffinity`. See the Additional resources section that follows for information about creating the affinity.
endif::pod[]
ifdef::pod[]
[source,terminal]
----
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: '2022-12-21T14:54:47Z'
  generation: 6
  labels:
    operators.coreos.com/openshift-custom-metrics-autoscaler-operator.openshift-keda: ''
  name: openshift-custom-metrics-autoscaler-operator
  namespace: openshift-keda
  resourceVersion: '77887'
  uid: 9b38d0eb-9c57-4cb6-9905-1c65c21f08ef
spec:
  name: my-package
  source: my-operators
  sourceNamespace: operator-registries
  config:
    affinity:
      podAntiAffinity: <1>
        requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
          nodeSelectorTerms:
            - matchExpressions:
                - values:
                    - ip-10-0-185-229.ec2.internal
                  key: kubernetes.io/hostname
                  operator: In
 ...
----
<1> Add a `podAntiAffinity`. See the Additional resources section that follows for information about creating the affinity.
endif::pod[]

.Verification

> * Ensure that pod is deployed on the specific node:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* To ensure that the pod is deployed on the specific node, run the following command:
```

> // Module included in the following assemblies:
> //
> // * operators/admin/olm-adding-operators-to-cluster.adoc

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * nodes/scheduling/nodes-scheduler-node-affinity.adoc
// * nodes/scheduling/nodes-scheduler-pod-affinity.adoc
// * operators/admin/olm-adding-operators-to-cluster.adoc
```

ifeval::["{context}" == "nodes-scheduler-pod-affinity"]
:pod:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "nodes-scheduler-node-affinity"]
:node:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "olm-adding-operators-to-a-cluster"]
:olm:
endif::[]

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="olm-overriding-operator-pod-affinity_{context}"]

ifdef::olm[]
= Controlling where an Operator is installed
endif::olm[]

ifdef::pod[]
= Using pod anti-affinity to control where an Operator is installed
endif::pod[]

ifdef::node[]
= Using node affinity to control where an Operator is installed
endif::node[]

By default, when you install an Operator, {product-title} installs the Operator pod to one of your worker nodes randomly. However, there might be situations where you want that pod scheduled on a specific node or set of nodes.

For example, some Operators require being scheduled on a node with a particular architecture, such as linux/amd64, linux/arm64, or Windows.

> Or, you might want Operators that work closely together to be scheduled on the same host, or on hosts located on the same rack. Alternatively, you might want your Operators dispersed throughout the infrastructure to avoid downtime due to network or hardware issues.

Reviewer 4: Based on the [ISG](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=grammar-conjunctions), I think you don't need the comma after _Or_. WDYT?
```suggestion
Or you might want Operators that work closely together to be scheduled on the same host, or on hosts located on the same rack. Alternatively, you might want your Operators dispersed throughout the infrastructure to avoid downtime due to network or hardware issues.
```

endif::pod[]
ifdef::pod[]
[source,terminal]
----
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: '2022-12-21T14:54:47Z'
  generation: 6
  labels:
    operators.coreos.com/openshift-custom-metrics-autoscaler-operator.openshift-keda: ''
  name: openshift-custom-metrics-autoscaler-operator
  namespace: openshift-keda
  resourceVersion: '77887'
  uid: 9b38d0eb-9c57-4cb6-9905-1c65c21f08ef
spec:
  name: my-package
  source: my-operators
  sourceNamespace: operator-registries
  config:
    affinity:
      podAntiAffinity: <1>
        requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
          nodeSelectorTerms:
            - matchExpressions:
                - values:
                    - ip-10-0-185-229.ec2.internal
                  key: kubernetes.io/hostname
                  operator: In
 ...
----
<1> Add a `podAntiAffinity`. See the Additional resources section that follows for information about creating the affinity.
endif::pod[]

.Verification

* Ensure that pod is deployed on the specific node:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods -o wide
----
+

> .Sample output

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.Example output
```
I think we default to _Example output_ based on the [repo guidelines](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#code-blocks-command-syntax-and-example-output).

              values:
                - linux
----
<1> A node affinity that requires the Operator's pod to be scheduled on a node with the `kubernetes.io/arch=arm64` and `kubernetes.io/os=linux` labels.
endif::pod[]

ifdef::pod[]
The following example shows how to use pod anti-affinity to prevent the installation the Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator from any node that has pods with a specific label:
endif::pod[]

ifndef::node[]
.Pod anti-affinity example that prevents the Operator pod from one or more specific nodes
[source,terminal]
----
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: '2022-12-21T14:54:47Z'
  generation: 6
  labels:
    operators.coreos.com/openshift-custom-metrics-autoscaler-operator.openshift-keda: ''
  name: openshift-custom-metrics-autoscaler-operator
  namespace: openshift-keda
  resourceVersion: '77887'
  uid: 9b38d0eb-9c57-4cb6-9905-1c65c21f08ef
spec:
  name: my-package
  source: my-operators
  sourceNamespace: operator-registries
  config:
    affinity:
      podAntiAffinity: <1>
        requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
        - labelSelector:
            matchExpressions:

>             - key: cpu

Author: @jianzhangbjz Users can add a custom label to a node and use that in the affinity, right?

>             - key: cpu

Reviewer 2: Yes, correct.

endif::node[]

.Procedure

To control the placement of an Operator pod, complete the following steps:

. Install the Operator as usual.

. If needed, ensure that your nodes are labeled to properly respond to the affinity.

. Edit the Operator `Subscription` object to add an affinity:
+
ifndef::pod[]
[source,terminal]
----
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: '2022-12-21T14:54:47Z'
  generation: 6
  labels:
    operators.coreos.com/openshift-custom-metrics-autoscaler-operator.openshift-keda: ''
  name: openshift-custom-metrics-autoscaler-operator
  namespace: openshift-keda
  resourceVersion: '77887'
  uid: 9b38d0eb-9c57-4cb6-9905-1c65c21f08ef
spec:
  name: my-package
  source: my-operators
  sourceNamespace: operator-registries
  config:
    affinity: <1>
      nodeAffinity:
        requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
          nodeSelectorTerms:
            - matchExpressions:
                - values:
                    - ip-10-0-185-229.ec2.internal
                  key: kubernetes.io/hostname
                  operator: In
 ...
----
ifdef::olm[]

> <1> Add a `nodeAffinity`, `podAffinity`, or `podAntiAffinity`. See the Additional resources section that follows for information about creating the affinity.

Reviewer 2: We should add an example for the `podAffinity`. Such as,
```yaml
MacBook-Pro:~ jianzhang$ oc label node xxx app=test
...
MacBook-Pro:~ jianzhang$ cat sub-etcd-affinity.yaml 
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  name: etcd
  namespace: test
spec:
  channel: singlenamespace-alpha
  config:
    affinity:
      podAffinity:
        requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
        - labelSelector:
            matchExpressions:
            - key: app
              operator: In
              values:
              - test
          topologyKey: kubernetes.io/hostname
  installPlanApproval: Automatic
  name: etcd
  source: community-operators
  sourceNamespace: openshift-marketplace
  startingCSV: etcdoperator.v0.9.4
```

endif::[]
ifdef::node[]
<1> Add a `nodeAffinity`.
endif::[]
endif::pod[]
ifdef::pod[]
[source,terminal]
----
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: '2022-12-21T14:54:47Z'
  generation: 6
  labels:
    operators.coreos.com/openshift-custom-metrics-autoscaler-operator.openshift-keda: ''
  name: openshift-custom-metrics-autoscaler-operator
  namespace: openshift-keda
  resourceVersion: '77887'
  uid: 9b38d0eb-9c57-4cb6-9905-1c65c21f08ef
spec:
  name: my-package
  source: my-operators
  sourceNamespace: operator-registries
  config:
    affinity:
      podAntiAffinity: <1>
        requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:

>           nodeSelectorTerms:

Reviewer 2: The `nodeSelectorTerms` for the `podAntiAffinity`? I guess it's wrong. And, for Pod `affinity` and `anti-affinity`, an empty topologyKey field is not allowed in both `requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution` and `preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution` based on https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/

endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "olm-adding-operators-to-a-cluster"]
:olm:
endif::[]

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="olm-overriding-operator-pod-affinity_{context}"]

ifdef::olm[]
= Controlling where an Operator is installed
endif::olm[]

ifdef::pod[]
= Using pod affinity and anti-affinity to control where an Operator is installed
endif::pod[]

ifdef::node[]
= Using node affinity to control where an Operator is installed
endif::node[]

By default, when you install an Operator, {product-title} installs the Operator pod to one of your worker nodes randomly. However, there might be situations where you want that pod scheduled on a specific node or set of nodes.

The following examples describe situations where you might want to schedule an Operator pod to a specific node or set of nodes:

* If an Operator requires a particular architecture, such as `amd64` or `arm64`
* If an Operator requires a particular operating system, such as Linux or Windows
* If you want Operators that work together scheduled on the same host or on hosts located on the same rack
* If you want Operators dispersed throughout the infrastructure to avoid downtime due to network or hardware issues

ifdef::olm[]

> You can control where an Operator pod is installed by adding node affinity, pod affinity, or pod anti-affinity constraints to the Operator's `Subscription` object. Node affinity is a set of rules used by the scheduler to determine where a pod can be placed. Pod affinity enables you to ensure that pods are scheduled to the same node. Pod anti-affinity allows you to prevent a pod from being scheduled on a node. 

Reviewer 3: Pod affinity enables you to ensure that **related** pods are scheduled to the same node

endif::olm[]

ifdef::pod[]
You can control where an Operator pod is installed by adding a pod affinity or anti-affinity to the Operator's `Subscription` object. 
endif::pod[]

ifdef::node[]
You can control where an Operator pod is installed by adding a node affinity constraints to the Operator's `Subscription` object.
endif::node[]

ifdef::olm[]
The following examples show how to use node affinity or pod anti-affinity to install an instance of the Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator to a specific node in the cluster:
endif::olm[]
ifdef::node[]
The following examples show how to use node affinity to install an instance of the Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator to a specific node in the cluster:
endif::node[]

ifndef::pod[]
.Node affinity example that places the Operator pod on a specific node
[source,terminal]
----
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:

>   creationTimestamp: '2022-12-21T14:54:47Z'

Reviewer 2: No need those metadata for the new subscription. The necessary args for the subscription, please help update all subscription samples, thanks!
```yaml
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  name: openshift-custom-metrics-autoscaler-operator
  namespace: openshift-keda
spec:
  name: my-package
  source: my-operators
  sourceNamespace: operator-registries
  config:
    affinity:
      nodeAffinity: <1>
        requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
          nodeSelectorTerms:
          - matchExpressions:
            - key: kubernetes.io/hostname
              operator: In
              values:
              - ip-10-0-163-94.us-west-2.compute.internal
             ...
```

  generation: 6
  labels:
    operators.coreos.com/openshift-custom-metrics-autoscaler-operator.openshift-keda: ''
  name: openshift-custom-metrics-autoscaler-operator
  namespace: openshift-keda
  resourceVersion: '77887'
  uid: 9b38d0eb-9c57-4cb6-9905-1c65c21f08ef
spec:
  name: my-package
  source: my-operators
  sourceNamespace: operator-registries
  config:
    affinity:
      nodeAffinity: <1>
        requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
          nodeSelectorTerms:
          - matchExpressions:
            - key: kubernetes.io/hostname
              operator: In
              values:
              - ip-10-0-163-94.us-west-2.compute.internal
 ...
----
<1> A node affinity that requires the Operator's pod to be scheduled on a node named `ip-10-0-163-94.us-west-2.compute.internal`.

> .Node affinity example that places the Operator pod on a node with a specific architecture

Reviewer 3: This is super nit-picky, but I would prefer to see us use the term "platform" instead of architecture.

linux/amd64 != windows/amd64, but they're they same architecture.

  config:
    affinity: <1>
      nodeAffinity:
        requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
          nodeSelectorTerms:
          - matchExpressions:
            - key: kubernetes.io/hostname
              operator: In
              values:
              - ip-10-0-185-229.ec2.internal
 ...
----
ifdef::olm[]
<1> Add a `nodeAffinity`, `podAffinity`, or `podAntiAffinity`. See the Additional resources section that follows for information about creating the affinity.
endif::[]
ifdef::node[]
<1> Add a `nodeAffinity`.
endif::[]
endif::pod[]
ifdef::pod[]
[source,terminal]
----
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: '2022-12-21T14:54:47Z'
  generation: 6
  labels:
    operators.coreos.com/openshift-custom-metrics-autoscaler-operator.openshift-keda: ''
  name: openshift-custom-metrics-autoscaler-operator
  namespace: openshift-keda
  resourceVersion: '77887'
  uid: 9b38d0eb-9c57-4cb6-9905-1c65c21f08ef
spec:
  name: my-package
  source: my-operators
  sourceNamespace: operator-registries
  config:
    affinity:
      podAntiAffinity: <1>
        requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:

>         - weight: 100

Reviewer 2: The `weight and podAffinityTerm`? I think the two flags only works for the `preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution`, not the `requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution`.
